docs: Revise Karpenter Getting Started into one guide (#3017)
aws/karpenter: website/content/en/preview/getting-started/_index.md

Although not supported, Karpenter could work on other Kubernetes distributions running on AWS. For example:
* [kOps](https://kops.sigs.k8s.io/operations/karpenter/): These instructions describe how to create a kOps Kubernetes cluster in AWS that includes Karpenter.

If you have not already configured Karpenter when you set up your Kubernetes cluster in AWS, follow the instructions below to add Karpenter to your existing cluster.

## Add Karpenter to an existing cluster

To add Karpenter to your cluster, you need to create IAM roles, add tags to subnets and security groups, and update the aws-auth ConfigMap.

### Create IAM role

To get started, create a new IAM role for the Karpenter controller.

The controller will be using [IAM Roles for Service Accounts (IRSA)](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/iam-roles-for-service-accounts.html) which requires an OIDC endpoint.

If you have another option for using IAM credentials with workloads (e.g. [kube2iam](https://github.com/jtblin/kube2iam)) your steps will be different.

Set a variable for your cluster name.

```bash

> CLUSTER_NAME=<your cluster name>

Reviewer: nit:
```suggestion
export CLUSTER_NAME=<your cluster name>
```

Author: Done.

```

Set other variables from your cluster configuration.

{{% script file="./scripts/step04-env.sh" language="bash" %}}

Use that information to create our IAM role, inline policy, and trust relationship.

{{% script file="./scripts/step05-controller-iam.sh" language="bash" %}}

### Add tags to subnets and security groups

Next add tags to your nodegroup subnets so Karpenter will know which subnets to use.

{{% script file="./scripts/step06-tag-subnets.sh" language="bash" %}}

Add tags to the security groups.

> This command only tags the security groups for the first nodegroup in the cluster.
> If you have multiple nodegroups or multiple security groups you will need to decide which one Karpenter should use.

Reviewer: The wording seems misleading here to me. From reading this, I would assume that Karpenter isn't going to be a groupless node autoscaler. Maybe we can do 
```suggestion
This command only tags the security groups used by the first nodegroup in the cluster.
If you have multiple nodegroups or multiple security groups you will need to decide which one Karpenter should use.
```

### Deploy Karpenter

First set the Karpenter release you want to deploy and the IAM instance profile that is used by the existing nodes in your cluster.
```bash
export KARPENTER_VERSION={{< param "latest_release_version" >}}
export IAM_INSTANCE_PROFILE_NAME=<your instance profile name>
```

We can now generate a full Karpenter deployment yaml from the helm chart.

{{% script file="./scripts/step09-generate-chart.sh" language="bash" %}}

Modify the following lines in the karpenter.yaml file.

### Set node affinity

Edit the karpenter.yaml file and find the karpenter deployment affinity rules.
Modify the affinity so karpenter will run on one of the existing node group nodes.

The rules should look something like this.
Modify the value to match your `$NODEGROUP`.

```
      affinity:
        nodeAffinity:
          requiredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution:
            nodeSelectorTerms:
            - matchExpressions:
              - key: karpenter.sh/provisioner-name
                operator: DoesNotExist
            - matchExpressions:
              - key: eks.amazonaws.com/nodegroup
                operator: In
                values:

>                 - ${NODEGROUP}

Reviewer 2: I wonder if this is necessary? It should be enough to simply say "don't run karpenter on itself", which is already included in the helm chart.

Reviewer: IIUC, this is from the CAS migration guide so that the user can install Karpenter on a nodegroup that the user isn't planning on deleting.

Author: Yes, this was taken from the CAS migration guide. Should I change it?

```

Now that our deployment is ready we can create the karpenter namespace, create the provisioner CRD, and then deploy the rest of the karpenter resources.

{{% script file="./scripts/step10-deploy.sh" language="bash" %}}

## Create default provisioner

We need to create a default provisioner so Karpenter knows what types of nodes we want for unscheduled workloads.
You can refer to some of the [example provisioners](https://github.com/aws/karpenter/tree{{< githubRelRef >}}examples/provisioner) for specific needs.

{{% script file="./scripts/step11-create-provisioner.sh" language="bash" %}}

> ## Set nodeAffinity for critical workloads (optional)

Reviewer 2: WDYT about excluding this from guidance? This is more of a personal choice. Personally, I'd be happy to run both of these on karpenter nodes, and I don't see a great reason to recommend against it.

Reviewer: ^ Agree, I don't think we'll need this just for the getting-started guide, since it's more of a "do you want more availability on your workloads"? Which is more of a Kubernetes good idea rather than something integral to the installation.

You may also want to set a nodeAffinity for other critical cluster workloads.

Some examples are

* coredns
* metric-server

You can edit them with `kubectl edit deploy ...` and you should add node affinity for your static node group instances.
Modify the value to match your `$NODEGROUP`.

```
      affinity:
        nodeAffinity:
          requiredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution:
            nodeSelectorTerms:
            - matchExpressions:
              - key: eks.amazonaws.com/nodegroup
                operator: In
                values:
                - ${NODEGROUP}
```

> ## Remove Cluster Autoscaler

Reviewer 2: I wonder if it's worth including this in the getting started guide. Actually migrating from CAS requires a lot more intention/planning.

* [EKS Karpenter Workshop](https://www.eksworkshop.com/beginner/085_scaling_karpenter/set_up_the_provisioner/)

This guide shows how to get started with Karpenter by installing and configuring it on a Kubernetes cluster.
If that cluster is currently using Cluster Autoscaler, the guide also gives you the option of migrating away from Cluster Autoscaler.

This guide assumes that you are starting with an existing Kubernetes cluster and that the following are true:

* You will use existing VPC and subnets
* You will use existing security groups
* Your workloads have pod disruption budgets that adhere to [EKS best practices](https://aws.github.io/aws-eks-best-practices/karpenter/)
* Your cluster has an [OIDC provider](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/enable-iam-roles-for-service-accounts.html) for service accounts
* Your nodes may be part of one or more node groups

This guide will also assume you have the `aws` and `kubectl` CLI tools installed.
You can also perform many of these steps in the console, but we will use the command line for simplicity.

## Get a cluster
To use Karpenter, you must be running a Kubernetes cluster on a supported cloud provider.

> Currently, only AWS is supported.

Reviewer 2: Thoughts on scoping this guide to just karpenter on EKS and not mention other options or lack thereof -- this will help the content survive the test of time.

Author: Okay. How should we handle kOps then? Should I just make it clear that the steps provided in this guide are only supported for EKS? That way we could still mention the kOps procedure, since it handles adding Karpenter itself. Or should we just drop the link to kOps?

Author: Okay. I changed the text to say that only EKS on AWS is currently supported. I said that if they wanted to try Karpenter on unsupported Kubernetes distributions on AWS, they could try kOps. I left the link to kOps instructions in.

There are several choices of Kubernetes distributions and deployment tools that you can choose from.
Here are examples:

* [Creating an Amazon EKS cluster](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/create-cluster.html): Use `eksctl` or `aws` CLI tools or the AWS Management console to deploy an EKS cluster.
* [Amazon EKS Blueprints for Terraform](https://aws-ia.github.io/terraform-aws-eks-blueprints): Follow a basic [Getting Started](https://aws-ia.github.io/terraform-aws-eks-blueprints/v4.18.0/getting-started/) guide and also add modules and add-ons. This includes a [Karpenter](https://aws-ia.github.io/terraform-aws-eks-blueprints/v4.18.0/add-ons/karpenter/) add-on that lets you bypass the instructions in this guide for setting up Karpenter.
* [kOps](https://kops.sigs.k8s.io/operations/karpenter/): These instructions describe how to create a kOps Kubernetes cluster in AWS that includes Karpenter.

If you have not already configured Karpenter when you set up your Kubernetes cluster in AWS, follow the instructions below to add Karpenter to your existing cluster.

## Add Karpenter to an existing cluster

> To add Karpenter to your cluster, you need to cread IAM roles, add tags to subnets and security groups, and update the aws-auth ConfigMap.

Author: Good catch! Fixed.

### Create IAM roles

> To get started, create two new IAM roles for nodes provisioned with Karpenter and the Karpenter controller.

Reviewer 3: this can be simplified further to only requiring an IRSA role. Since Karpenter needs something to run on, then there already exists some form of compute that is connected to the control plane. tl;dr - there has to be at least one node with an IAM role and instance profile and the necessary permissions before Karpenter can even be provisioned. Users can simply re-use this role/instance profile. Just FYI

Author: I'm not sure exactly how to say that. Can you suggest specific wording?

Reviewer 3: Here is what that could look like (changes based on your PR here) https://github.com/aws/karpenter/commit/b4ec84d65af52bc8c35cbdd871696577ad63e1ea

This cuts out quite a bit of overhead for users since there is already compute required before provisioning Karpenter which that means there is an existing IAM instance profile that is already in the `aws-auth` configmap (unless Karpenter is running on Fargate, in which case an IAM instance profile would need to be created). 

I will leave it up to you all to decided if this is worthwhile or not - just a suggestion to make this easier and with fewer resources/steps

Author: Thanks @bryantbiggs . I've incorporated the changes you suggested.

```

You should also see new nodes created in your cluster as the old nodes are removed

```bash
kubectl get nodes
```
## First Use

Karpenter is now active and ready to begin provisioning nodes.
Create some pods using a deployment, and watch Karpenter provision nodes in response.

### Automatic Node Provisioning

This deployment uses the [pause image](https://www.ianlewis.org/en/almighty-pause-container) and starts with zero replicas.

{{% script file="./scripts/step13-automatic-node-provisioning.sh" language="bash"%}}

### Automatic Node Termination

Now, delete the deployment. After 30 seconds (`ttlSecondsAfterEmpty`),
Karpenter should terminate the now empty nodes.

{{% script file="./scripts/step14-deprovisioning.sh" language="bash"%}}

### Manual Node Termination

If you delete a node with kubectl, Karpenter will gracefully cordon, drain,
and shutdown the corresponding instance. Under the hood, Karpenter adds a
finalizer to the node object, which blocks deletion until all pods are
drained and the instance is terminated. Keep in mind, this only works for
nodes provisioned by Karpenter.

{{% script file="./scripts/step15-delete-node.sh" language="bash"%}}

> ## Cleanup

Reviewer 2: Maybe worth removing this section now since you don't know how the user created the cluster.

Author: I'll remove the `eksctl` command for deleting the cluster. I think the other steps would be a good way to remind them how to clean up the Karpenter stuff they added from the guide.

Reviewer: I think the other commands work, but I still see the eksctl command there. Can we remove it from the bottom of the file?
